[APPSEC-27] Add Python specification (#1047)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6432/python/rule.adoc

include::../description.adoc[]

== Noncompliant Code Example

https://cryptography.io[cryptography]

[source,python]
----

> def encrypt(key, ptxt):
>     nonce   = '7cVgr5cbdCZV'.encode('utf-8') # The initialization vector is a static value
> 
>     cipher  = AESGCM(key)
> 
>     cipher.encrypt(nonce, ptxt, None) # Noncompliant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from cryptography.hazmat.primitives.ciphers.aead import AESGCM

def encrypt(key, plaintext):
    nonce   = '7cVgr5cbdCZV'.encode('utf-8') # The initialization vector is a static value

    cipher  = AESGCM(key)

    cipher.encrypt(nonce, plaintext, None) # Noncompliant
```

----

https://pycryptodome.readthedocs.io[pycryptodome]

[source,python]
----

> def encrypt(key, ptxt):
>     nonce   = '7cVgr5cbdCZV'.encode('utf-8') # The initialization vector is a static value
> 
>     cipher = AES.new(key, AES.MODE_CCM, nonce) # Initialization vector is configured here
>     
>     cipher.encrypt(ptxt) # Noncompliant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from Crypto.Cipher import AES

def encrypt(key, plaintext):
    nonce   = '7cVgr5cbdCZV'.encode('utf-8') # The initialization vector is a static value

    cipher = AES.new(key, AES.MODE_CCM, nonce) # Initialization vector is configured here
    
    cipher.encrypt(plaintext) # Noncompliant
```

----

== Compliant Solution

https://cryptography.io[cryptography]

[source,python]

> ----
> def encrypt(key, ptxt):
>     nonce   = urandom(12) # Random 96 bit IV
> 
>     cipher  = AESGCM(key)s
> 
>     cipher.encrypt(nonce, ptxt, None)
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from os import urandom
from cryptography.hazmat.primitives.ciphers.aead import AESGCM
----
def encrypt(key, plaintext):
    nonce   = urandom(12) # Random 96 bit IV

    cipher  = AESGCM(key)

    cipher.encrypt(nonce, plaintext, None)
----
```

https://pycryptodome.readthedocs.io[pycryptodome]

[source,python]
----

> def encrypt(key, ptxt):
>     nonce   = get_random_bytes(12) # Random 96 bit IV
> 
>     cipher  = AES.new(key, AES.MODE_CCM, nonce)
> 
>     cipher.encrypt_and_digest(ptxt)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from Crypto.Cipher import AES

def encrypt(key, plaintext):

    cipher  = AES.new(key, AES.MODE_CCM)

    cipher.encrypt_and_digest(plaintext)
```
